Add Intro to Ether page [Fixes #3548] (#3699)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/docs/intro-to-ether/index.md

[Gas](/developers/docs/gas/#what-is-gas) is proportional to the number of operations a given transaction must execute before completing. Some transactions might be very simple; for example, moving Ether from one account to another. Other transactions are much more intensive; for example, calculating the first trillion Fibonacci numbers. Tracking gas ensures each user pays a proportional amount for their usage of the Ethereum network's computing power.

Gas fees are a measure of the short-term demand for the Ethereum network's computing power. When many users are trying to use Ethereum, gas fees increase (and vice versa).

Gas fees are made up of two components: [base fee](/developers/docs/gas/#base-fee) and [priority fee](/developers/docs/gas/#priority-fee) (also called a tip). The base fee is set by the protocol in reaction to network demand, and the priority fee is set by users hoping to be included into the next block. Senders can set their priority fee as high as they prefer; however, the miners who include transactions into blocks are incentivized to pick transactions offering the highest gas fees.

> Thus, gas fees functions as an auction mechanism for inclusion in the next Ethereum block. As a result, two transactions with the same amount of gas may cost more or less depending on when they are submitted to Ethereum.

Author: Agreed. This section felt like the biggest detour when writing. As a potential change, I think we could delete this section and then add a very brief reference to gas in the "what is Ether" section.

> Thus, gas fees functions as an auction mechanism for inclusion in the next Ethereum block. As a result, two transactions with the same amount of gas may cost more or less depending on when they are submitted to Ethereum.

Reviewer: Yeah mentioning gas somewhere else on this page is definitely right, this section just felt too deep a dive.

[More on gas](/developers/docs/gas/)

## Minting Ether {#minting-ether}

> Ether is minted by the Ethereum protocol when a miner creates a block. To incentivize block creation, the protocol grants a "reward" in each block, incrementing the balance of an address set by the block's miner. The block reward has changed over time, and today it is 2 ETH per block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ether is minted by the Ethereum protocol when a miner creates a block. As an incentive to miners, the protocol grants a reward in each block, incrementing the balance of an address set by the block's miner. The block reward has changed over time, and today it is 2 ETH per block.
```

> Ethereum also provides smaller rewards to miners who create ["uncle blocks"](/developers/docs/data-and-analytics/block-explorers/#blocks), which are beyond the scope of this introduction.

Author: Confirming: Remove just the uncle blocks paragraph, or both the miner rewards and uncle blocks paragraphs? Seeing both highlighted in the Github comment. 

Agreed on uncle blocks (too confusing for intro), but think we may want to keep the miner reward paragraph because "where does ETH come from?" feels like an intro-level question we should answer.

> Ethereum also provides smaller rewards to miners who create ["uncle blocks"](/developers/docs/data-and-analytics/block-explorers/#blocks), which are beyond the scope of this introduction.

Reviewer: Yeah, I meant the uncle block section. The section above is good.

## Burning Ether {#burning-ether}

> Ether burn occurs in every transaction on Ethereum. When a user pays for their transaction, their [base fee](/developers/docs/gas/#base-fee) is automatically destroyed. [In some blocks](https://etherscan.io/block/12965263), more Ether are burned than minted due to base fee burn.

Reviewer: I think we need to explain what burning means in immediately before or after (in the same sentence) we introduce the term.

Also, think we should remove the link to base fee docs (same reasoning as above).

## Denominations of Ether {#denominations}

Since many transactions on Ethereum are small, Ether has several denominations which may be referenced for smaller amounts.

> The denominations below can be found in the [Ethereum Whitepaper](/whitepaper/#currency-and-issuance). Others have been proposed, but Wei, Szabo, and Finney remain the most commonly used denominations. Each is named after a famous member of the cypherpunks, a group of cryptographers whose work influenced today's blockchain space.

Reviewer: > Others have been proposed, but Wei, Szabo, and Finney remain the most commonly used denominations.

Isn't gwei used more commonly than all of these?

Author: Good point. Will rearrange this section

Author: Ended up removing denominations outside of Wei/Gwei. Szabo/Finney felt more like fun facts rather than directly useful denominations (at least I haven't seen them used much). Happy to re-add if you feel differently

| Wei          | 10<sup>-18</sup> | Computer scientist whose [b-money](http://www.weidai.com/bmoney.txt) system was a foundational work in blockchain development.                                                                                    |
| Szabo        | 10<sup>-6</sup>  | Computer scientist who helped [define the concept of smart contracts](https://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/rob/Courses/InformationInSpeech/CDROM/Literature/LOTwinterschool2006/szabo.best.vwh.net/smart_contracts_2.html). |
| Finney       | 10<sup>-3</sup>  | Digital rights activist and first user of Bitcoin after Satoshi Nakamoto.                                                                                                                                         |

Of these denominations, Wei is particularly important, as it is the smallest possible amount of Ether. As a result, many technical implementations, such as the [Ethereum Yellowpaper](https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf), will base all calculations in Wei.

> Giga-wei or "gwei" is often used to describe gas costs on the Ethereum network.

Reviewer: As above. Gwei seems too important to be an afterthought.

## Transferring Ether {#transferring-ether}

> Each [transaction](/developers/docs/transactions/#whats-a-transaction) in the Ethereum blockchain contains a `value` field, which transfers a specified amount of Ether, denominated in Wei, to send from the sender's address to the recipient address.

Reviewer: We're linking to transactions twice here. I'd keep the second link as it's less distracting to users than the first.

```suggestion
Each transaction in the Ethereum blockchain contains a `value` field, which transfers a specified amount of Ether, denominated in Wei, to send from the sender's address to the recipient address.
```
